README.md, before:

wordpress-plugin-gulp-starter
=============================

A WordPress starter plugin that also includes full setup for Gulp, SASS, AutoPrefixer, BrowserSync, and more.
The starter plugin's code is based on [WordPress-Plugin-Boilerplate](https://github.com/DevinVinson/WordPress-Plugin-Boilerplate) by [DevinVinson](https://github.com/DevinVinson)

## System Preparation

To use this starter project, you'll need the following things installed on your machine.

1. [NodeJS](http://nodejs.org) - use the installer.
3. [GulpJS](https://github.com/gulpjs/gulp) - `$ npm install -g gulp` (mac users may need sudo).

## Local Installation

1. Clone this repo, or download it into a directory of your choice.
2. Inside the directory, run `$ npm install` to install the node modules (e.g. Gulp).

## Usage

**development mode**

This will give you file watching, browser synchronisation, auto-rebuild, CSS injecting etc etc.

    $ gulp

## Organization

This starter plugin uses `src`, `build`, and `dist` folders to organize plugin development:

* `src`: this directory contains the raw material for your plugin. **Only edit files in this directory!**
* `build`: generated by Gulp, this is a *working copy* of your plugin for use in development and testing.
* `dist`: short for distribution, this will be the final, polished copy of your plugin for production. You will need to manually run `gulp dist` to create a new distribution.

Note: both the `build` and `dist` directories are disposable and can be regenerated from the contents of `src`. You aren't likely to want to edit files in this folders but you may want to open them up to diagnose issues with the build process itself.

## Working with Sass

* This package now supports either [gulp-ruby-sass](https://github.com/sindresorhus/gulp-ruby-sass/) (which requires [the original Ruby implementation of Sass](https://github.com/sass/sass)) or [gulp-sass](https://www.npmjs.org/package/gulp-sass) (based on the newer, experimental, and faster [libsass](https://github.com/sass/libsass), now active by default). Switch `styles.compiler` in the configuration file as needed! For reference: [Sass compatibility table](https://sass-compatibility.github.io/).
* Gulp will not process Sass partials beginning with `_`; these need to be explicitly imported (see `style.scss` for an example). On the other hand, if you want to output any other CSS files just drop the underscore *e.g.* `editor-style.scss`.
* Packages installed with Bower or npm are in the path by default so you can `@import` Sass files directly, as seen in `style.scss`.
* The `build` folder is provisioned with regular versions of all stylesheets but `dist` only contains minified versions for production.
* [Sourcemaps](http://www.html5rocks.com/en/tutorials/developertools/sourcemaps/?redirect_from_locale=tw) are generated by [gulp-sourcemaps](https://github.com/floridoo/gulp-sourcemaps) to make debugging stylesheets a snap.

## Local Development using a Symlink

You can symlink this plugin to a WordPress installation if you wish. Here are the steps:

1. Symlink `build` to your `wp-content/plugins` directory for local development and testing (e.g. if your plugin is in `~/dev/plugins/my-plugin` and your local copy of WordPress is installed in `~/dev/localhost/wp` you'll want to run `ln -s ~/dev/plugins/my-plugin/build ~/dev/localhost/wp/wp-content/plugin/my-plugin`).

You can also symlink the `dist` directory for a final round of testing; just keep in mind that your plugin will now be in `dist/[project]`, where `[project]` is the setting at the top of the Gulp configuration. This project folder is what you will want to deploy to production. (No more weird junk in your plugin. Hooray!)

Commit message:

Update readme with section about development with dedicated WP installation

README.md, after:

wordpress-plugin-gulp-starter
=============================

A WordPress starter plugin that also includes full setup for Gulp, SASS, AutoPrefixer, BrowserSync, and more.
The starter plugin's code is based on [WordPress-Plugin-Boilerplate](https://github.com/DevinVinson/WordPress-Plugin-Boilerplate) by [DevinVinson](https://github.com/DevinVinson)

## System Preparation

To use this starter project, you'll need the following things installed on your machine.

1. [NodeJS](http://nodejs.org) - use the installer.
3. [GulpJS](https://github.com/gulpjs/gulp) - `$ npm install -g gulp` (mac users may need sudo).

## Local Installation

1. Clone this repo, or download it into a directory of your choice.
2. Inside the directory, run `$ npm install` to install the node modules (e.g. Gulp).

## Local Development using dedicated WP installation

If you want to have a dedicated WordPress installation just for this project, you can just download and unzip a fresh copy of WordPress, put it into the root folder, and rename it to `wp`.
If you want to install it under a different path, make sure to edit the build and browsersnyc proxy paths in the `gulpconfig.js`.

## Local Development using a Symlink

You can symlink this plugin to a WordPress installation if you wish. Here are the steps:

1. Symlink `build` to your `wp-content/plugins` directory for local development and testing (e.g. if your plugin is in `~/dev/plugins/my-plugin` and your local copy of WordPress is installed in `~/dev/localhost/wp` you'll want to run `ln -s ~/dev/plugins/my-plugin/build ~/dev/localhost/wp/wp-content/plugin/my-plugin`).

You can also symlink the `dist` directory for a final round of testing; just keep in mind that your plugin will now be in `dist/[project]`, where `[project]` is the setting at the top of the Gulp configuration. This project folder is what you will want to deploy to production. (No more weird junk in your plugin. Hooray!)

## Usage

**development mode**

This will give you file watching, browser synchronisation, auto-rebuild, CSS injecting etc etc.

    $ gulp

## Organization

This starter plugin uses `src`, `build`, and `dist` folders to organize plugin development:

* `src`: this directory contains the raw material for your plugin. **Only edit files in this directory!**
* `build`: generated by Gulp, this is a *working copy* of your plugin for use in development and testing.
* `dist`: short for distribution, this will be the final, polished copy of your plugin for production. You will need to manually run `gulp dist` to create a new distribution.

Note: both the `build` and `dist` directories are disposable and can be regenerated from the contents of `src`. You aren't likely to want to edit files in this folders but you may want to open them up to diagnose issues with the build process itself.

## Working with Sass

* This package now supports either [gulp-ruby-sass](https://github.com/sindresorhus/gulp-ruby-sass/) (which requires [the original Ruby implementation of Sass](https://github.com/sass/sass)) or [gulp-sass](https://www.npmjs.org/package/gulp-sass) (based on the newer, experimental, and faster [libsass](https://github.com/sass/libsass), now active by default). Switch `styles.compiler` in the configuration file as needed! For reference: [Sass compatibility table](https://sass-compatibility.github.io/).
* Gulp will not process Sass partials beginning with `_`; these need to be explicitly imported (see `style.scss` for an example). On the other hand, if you want to output any other CSS files just drop the underscore *e.g.* `editor-style.scss`.
* Packages installed with Bower or npm are in the path by default so you can `@import` Sass files directly, as seen in `style.scss`.
* The `build` folder is provisioned with regular versions of all stylesheets but `dist` only contains minified versions for production.
* [Sourcemaps](http://www.html5rocks.com/en/tutorials/developertools/sourcemaps/?redirect_from_locale=tw) are generated by [gulp-sourcemaps](https://github.com/floridoo/gulp-sourcemaps) to make debugging stylesheets a snap.
